.\" Manpage for eja.
.\" Contact ubaldo@eja.it to correct errors or typos.
.TH eja 1 
.SH NAME
eja - micro web server
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBeja\fP [SCRIPT] [OPTION]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBeja\fP can be used as a micro web server for static and dynamic generated
content, as a text scanner using Lua pattern matching syntax or as a
standalone Lua interpreter.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB--shell\fP
launch an interactive shell.

.TP
\fB--update\fP \fIlibrary\fP
if library is specified install or update it otherwise update \fBeja\fP to latest version.

.TP
\fB--export\fP \fIfile\fP
export file to \fBeja\fP portable bytecode.

.TP
\fB--log-file\fP \fIfile\fP
log data to \fIfile\fP, default: \fBstderr\fP

.TP
\fB--log-level\fP 0..5
level can be from 0 (no log) to 5 (trace).

.TP
\fB--scan\fP \fIscript\fP
if \fIscript\fP is present load it as the scanning script using \fBR\fP as full row content and \fBF\fP as matching array elements.
Otherwise print only matching \fIpattern\fP content.

.TP
\fB--scan-file\fP \fIfile\fP
scanning input file, default: \fBstdin\fP

.TP
\fB--scan-pattern\fP \fIpattern\fP
set a valid Lua pattern as fields separator, default: \fB%S+\fP

.TP
\fB--scan-record\fP \fIpattern\fP
set a valid Lua pattern as record separator, default: \fB\\n\fP

.TP
\fB--web-start\fP
start a new web server in background.

.TP
\fB--web-stop\fP \fIport\fP
stop the web server running on specified \fIport\fP, default 35248.

.TP
\fB--web-host\fP \fIIP\fP
bind web server to specified \fIIP\fP, default all available.

.TP
\fB--web-port\fP \fIvalue\fP
run the web server port on specified \fIvalue\fP, default 35248.

.TP
\fB--web-path\fP \fIpath\fP
web content path, default /var/eja/web

.TP
\fB--web-size\fP \fIvalue\fP
set web server buffer size, default 8192.

.TP
\fB--web-user\fP
add a new web server user.

.TP
\fB--help\fP
display help information.


.SH SEE ALSO
lua(1), awk(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Ubaldo Porcheddu (ubaldo@eja.it)